Fear is still there. Rights will keep checking with that one.
Lyd.
I prefer news about concert, use the but concert, concert news.
Or okay, yesterday, my favorite star gave a concert, fortunately, I didn't get tickets.
And who is that?
I like, seventeen, seventeen.
Okay, kid. Kid think lydia won.
Sorry, you couldn't be a part of that one.
We we. What news stories interest you a sports.
What's what kind of sports do you like? I like a pingpong.
And football.
Okay, while we do have some olympics coming out, hopefully you'll be keeping up with that penguin tomorrow. Yeah. Thank you away. Thanks.
Tomorrow. Is not sure.
Bernard whitney's stories interest you.
A it's the soccer games.
North excuse me.
Interesting. Me.
Okay, the interest you.
Okay, so I don't want you to say interesting me.
You say, the me can make sure I have that.
You interest me, right? I will be keeping those corrections up so you guys can just browse through them.
So the rate, obviously, he is the one who occurs in the green, is correct.
So let's continue. Now we have 1 bit of a short task here.
It says match the type of news to the pictures. We are full pictures, and we have four possible news at the bottom.
You will just be matching them to their correct ones. So lydia, the first picture there?
What word goes there?
I think the first picture is concerned.
Of course, it's a you would know what a concert is it.
We always second one.
More modern, more.
N.
I don't know how to say it's like modern, modern than modern.
Are you trying to say, mur, yes, kill someone.
And the policeman arrested him crime that is murdered a years. But I want you to use the phrases that I have.
So the act of murder is that a disaster, a sport? Is it a crime?
Crime, kate, crime.
Bernard, the third one, a third sports. I hit.
The third one, sport, and the last one later, disaster. We have a disaster there, right? The task does continue.
We're now putting these under hot, new and soft news. Right, way, way.
We're continuing from you concerts.
Is it hot most often use, I think it is a goes goes to the news. Soft news, brenna, yes, call me belongs to hard news, hard news.
Lydia, sports are belongs to softness, soft and waywe.
The last one, a disaster goes to the soft, a hot news, exhausted as hard news, right? Very good lead's been.
Proceed. No, you have told us about the news that interests you ride. He said, concerts. We have two sports as well.
Now I want to know, then use the don't typically interest you. So the first part of this question, which is this one, we have typically altered in the first. Task.
So now it's look at the second part of christian.
What news stories interest you? Right? So not you. Continuing from you. What news stories don't interest you?
Sorry, or what news stories interests in. Do not know we're doing this one, the one where they don't interest you.
You've told this once. News interest you now, which news?
Don't. S.
Stories, about sports, interest me.
What I want, I want that don't interest you. Autumn, what?
News stories don't interest you.
Stories.
About mm, but but movie?
Movie. Star, I don't interest me, right?
So celebrity gossip.
That's i'm the same with you. They bernard.
I don't really, typically, like celebrity gossip news about what movie stars and actors fingers do.
I don't really care.
Yes i'm thinking or not.
Lyd,ia, which wants stones.
Interest you a story about concerts interest me.
Stories. About economy. Don't seem just me.
Oh, dear lady, okay, the economy does not interest you.
Okay, I understand, are we?
We which ones don't interest?
You i'm sorry about economy interest me.
Stories about politics don't interest me.
You like the ones with the economy, but politics, to no, no, yes. Thank you guys. So that's good, good. Let's than proceed. Now that we know which ones you like and which ones you don't like.
So i'll add the economy because you said sports, or add the economy there at the top for you, where we right?
So long as let's continue you now for this part of the task, you are going to basically be ranking number one to number six, from least important to most important.
It says, how important are these different types of stories to you in general and to people in your?
But I do want to focus on you in general, instead of maturity of the people in your country, because that one might be, I think it would be dependent on each person. So let's focus on you for this task.
How are how important are these different stories to you? So for example, you'd say you're least important.
So your number one, you'd say it's for me.
I'd say it's gossip.
So i'm going to read my vota from least to most, that say, gossip, crime, entertainment and economy.
And international news. I think the most important for me, international news behind it would be all right.
So that's my respect to my auda. So that's how you guys are going to be doing that.
One least important to most important, you're just going to read out your audience. They're like, I did mine.
I said gossip, which is the least important, followed by um, crime. All right.
So let I want you to take this one first.
I think for me, an entertainment news is the most important.
First a second, mm, sports, third, scholarship, first, international news.
Mm, this crime. Finally, economy. Right now, you rent yours from most important to least important.
Okay, still, an acceptable order.
You might think you'll, yeah, very good. Now, this one wants you to do at least important to most important.
But of course, there's nothing wrong. If you start with the most important, go all the way down. Or you can start down and go all the way up with your order as long as you clarify.
And lydia did do that. She said, most important to her.
Then we knew that her od is important to least important.
All right?
Where we gives you water as well. You rank ok, for me, are.
The most important news is sports.
At least important news at the type of the news is gossip, an after an it will be a after, the gossip cry. Then economy, a crime.
International news, economy, and then entertainment.
Okay. Thank you.
Away. She could order that once more, that bernard, it's your turn. Let's give. Let's help you.
Give us, your rank. Yes.
For me, asking most important euros is the economy nice?
An international nurse is yes.
And the sports.
Alas, last important for me, it's entertainment. That's the team, right? Get good.
Now, bernardi said, last importance you want you to say least, because if you say last important, it means that what you mentioning is still very much important with the most important ones.
But if you least important, then it's obvious that, okay, the salt doesn't matter, are too much, right?
The wise late continued to the next part. Now this is gonna be a short conversation once more part of this task.
It, says, talk about news stories that interests you.
Student a asks, shouldn't be what types of news stories interest them, and which ones don't?
The student p answers student a's questions and ask which news stories interest them and which don't. Alright? So the same typical conversation i've been having, but I have been asking you these questions.
You will now be having it a month amongst each other.
So you'll be finding out what news stories interest to other person, they'll tell you. Or, I like sports.
And then if you want to ask for the questions, you can ask things like, what kind of sports are you into? Then they would say, tennis, reckoned badminton, whatever it is rides. And you say, all right, that is quite interesting.
I, actually, like celebrity gossip.
And then they, to that one, you can also save both. So what don't you like? Which news sports don't interest?
You then they'll tell you, I don't like hearing about politics. Why not?
I think politics is conflicting people, right? Basically, you're just having a conversation, right?
I don't want to give too many examples away, but I think that was quite clear.
So you will be a for the swan and weiwei, you will be b. Okay? Hello women.
Hello. What news stories interest?
You thus, the type, the story, type of the new, of the enter international news.
Interested.
Me what has happened in the news about international, the news they talk about and news remain subject about the no, no, a culture, an economy and troubles?
Oh, what? News story don't interest me in interest.
You that way.
We why is your mind?
The stories are about the gossip.
And gossip and crime.
Crime. Don't see. Interested me.
Let's now when we, when you're done, responding to that once you say, oh, it's news politics, perhaps that don't interest me and crime. You then have to ask lydia, so what about you?
What news interest you? And then find out movement stones as well.
What about you, or which type of the which? What type of the new story interested you?
Ah, it's for me, stories, what concerns interest me are in a t.
That's all. Are we? What, what, what does? What? Capital story, what types of the new story don't interest?
You I think I stories about economy don't interest me, because it's so.
And ah, so boring. Yeah, I agree.
Thank you.
Thank you, the good.
Thank you guys. Now, for that conversation, obviously you had to find out.
Now, lydia, I like what you did when you're asking, way, way, use, that are to her. And she said, it's a national news. Instead of just asking something different to you. They are a very good question. What's been happening in the international uso?
In the international. It's not at the moment right now, that's building up on what she said.
So you showed very good conversational skills there.
And then anyway, not remember to reciprocate a conversation you don't just ended abruptly, because then it becomes awkward. And that's the whole point of this exercise is that you guys learn to conversate easily in english without it getting awkward. Right?
So there's a way to in the conversation. So when somebody's asking you something, you reciprocate, you ask, oh, what about you?
How's your day as well? We've asked you about your day. Also, find out about the how's your day going right?
Reciprocate each time, just to make sure the conversation ends in, we moved away. And when you're done it, then you say, oh, okay, no, thank you for the information.
If you were looking for information. But she don't just end it abruptly.
It then becomes awkward, which defeats the whole purpose of having a fruitful compensation. But that was good. You guys did absolutely war with that one? Not lidia.
Um, if you do not mind too much, I would like for you to to do this one with bernard, but this time for not will be a.
And you will be b. That's not you a little.
You've been hello a waiter. Stories interesting.
You. Ah, i.
I interest, I think, an interest.
Our stories about the concerts are important to me.
Concert as saw you like, concert saw a, it's this month.
I'll many concert are you and you? A booked already? Yes.
But yesterday, my favorite star concert, but I don't.
I didn't get. I didn't book.
Oh, I think the many people booked this. It is. I think it's movies. Eis is very famous.
I think yes.
And many people like this.
Oh, yes, it's a so too hard, too hard to rope.
Okay, so of which no overall, what? News stories don't interest you? Mm, I don't cry.
And economic news or economy? Right?
Yes, I think it's so hard to me.
Yes. It's very difficult. Yes.
What about you?
For me, yeah, it is sports, sports stories, and interest me, because I like watch, love football game and basketball game.
It also, last month, europe cup. Yes, in a sport.
Also this this month, as parents at london, larry parents, friends? Yes. As olympics sports? Yes.
Yes, when i, i.
But stories b, in entertainment, I don't don't interest me because it's very, very terrible for me.
It is I don't like this entertainment.
Okay. Thank you.
Okay, thank you, kate guys, nothing. Thank you for that one.
Lydia award you to have this one with bernard, because I did realize that you were capable of halting conversation. Yes, but there's a point where you almost left bernard hanging.
You're also meant to find out from him which entertainment used as he not find interesting.
But bernard did take the initiative to answer that question himself, which is a sign of good conversational skills answering a question, perhaps, that you are not asked yourself, but you did pose it to someone else.
So you assume you may still part of their conversation. And to keep it going, you end up saying, okay, so I like this and this and that.
But what I also don't like is gossip, news and entertainment, use and so forth. Super. Not very good on that ending.
You've finished very strong. So thank you. Let you once more.
Thank you for not and way. Way, sir.
Good.
No, we are done for this part of the task, right?
Yeah, no, we are done for this part of the task. Clemency. Okay, yeah, we all done for those part of the task.
So I want you guys to now follow me to notes from the top.
Just come all the way down the i'm going to put some words there, don't say wrong.
Screenshot give me a second to get my words. Now, what we're doing with this one is context, right?
So two things are about to take place right now. We do it quickly, we'll turn it to enter a fun game.
But what i'm trying to build on right now is your ability to understand or analyze, right? So you guys are learning a new language.
You are in counsel, but perhaps on the daily, if you're doing a lot of reading. So what I want to do for you, or with you right now is give you a scale.
Now, this that I still used to the state, if you can master of using analyzing contexts, you would never, ever need to look a word up because you don't understand it, right?
For example, a person can give you and on respond with statement that has a word you're not sure it's a new vocabulary, and you're thinking to yourself, what am I looking at? Does this mean?
Now context. We're going to analyze context and see how you can use those skills to understand your word. This is what I mean.
So i'll make an example of what I mean right now with the first word at the top.
So the first word he starts with is coaching. Like I said, two things we're doing here analyzing context, so we're mastering the art of analyzing context.
Number, two, you guys are acquiring a new vocabulary for the day.
All right?
So this quickly look at the first one, scorching. So that's the pronunciation of that word.
He is one thing I also want from you guys, each time I pronounce a new word, I want you to also pronounce it. No, you don't don't need to open your mics just wherever, wherever you are for the sake of correct pronunciation.
When I say it pleased to see it after me as well.
Again, if I speak too fast, let me know. All right, it's no use for me to continue speaking.
If if it's going over your head, I know myself, just, please help me.
Even the ones that I listening in, you can type it in the chat. You can even say, slow down. I will remember to space my speech.
Okay, so scorching is the pronunciation of the word.
Let me give you context, and let's look at it quickly.
So you asked me, perhaps with that one, you say, teacher, naomi, how's the weather in south africa today?
And then I said to you, it is such a scorching day.
And south africa today of literally been sweety the whole morning, because it's such a scorching day.
It's scorching outside.
So now, you're sitting there yourself.
You just encounter, in your word, at coaching. So you're thinking to yourself, what does this mean?
Let's dissented. But the context, when I see dissect it, means a really open it up. And look at what's inside my statement.
The context, I give you. So you asked me how the weather is like, my response was a scorching.
You don't know what's scorching means. You're thinking, all right, what is she doing?
What is she saying?
She's saying that she's been sweating the whole day. She's been wiping sweat the whole day. Why does a person sweat as you do this very quickly in your mind.
But of course, i'll do it slow with you guys, because we're learning the tactic, right? But I do those quick. I'm thinking, okay, this person, say, they're sweating, then they must be hard.
You know, I do it fast, so let's do it slow. All right?
So you're thinking, why does a person sweat? Hmm.
A person that's switch is typically a person that's feeling what, that's feeling hot. Okay, maybe i'm still not sure if it means hot let me.
Look at something else she's doing, or she saying, she's fanning herself, she's blowing some cold air to herself.
Why would a person need to do that? The possibility? Hot. Then. Now you're sure that scorching hot. Because you've analyzed this, you've looked at as quickly.
And you thought beneath you hot. So she's feeling hot because it's scorching today. So south africa is hard today.
It's a hot day. Suddenly makes sense. My response to you saying it, it's suck. That just scorching day.
You now, know that it's such a in my country today. All right, so that's the first analysis of context.
I will keep breaking it down.
But some of these words, I want to leave them, you guys. And if you're picking up on it, but for now, let's continue doing context. Now another tip.
Before we go to the second word with context. Each ×1 word is used in a sentence which is called context.
Each time. It's used contextually.
And there's a new word that you don't understand.
Know, this, the meaning of this new word you've seen for the first time, is always inside the context. It's always in there.
Or you have to do, is just dissect the context. Who figured the word out without google, without any. Just look at the context.
Let's continue. Squalid. Let me pronounce that 1 bit slower.
Squalid, right?
I'm going to give you a scenario that is context as well.
So you walk into a house, you walk into your house, your apartment, whatever the case, there's toys everywhere, there's papers everywhere.
There, lord on the um, the floor, this food they spilled on the floor.
And then you walk into such a place and you say to yourself, why is this room so squalid?
What happened in here? What does it look?
So squalid.
Right now, before we try to figure that one out, context, one more, we'll do this three times, and then we'll continue.
No. Let's look at context. Your walking into a room and you are saying squalid. This is the word you're seeing for the first time.
So youre, asking yourself, why does she seeing what's there?
Why is she saying, squalid? What can she be seeing? What did I say to you in the context?
I said this papers on the floor. I said, this clothes everywhere, this food spilled on the floor.
There's water on the floor, there's mud on the floor.
If you want to add. So what?
You now, look at the condition of that.
You imagine it yourself, you're thinking, okay, here's a room. There is full of papers on the floor. That's claws on the floor. There's wart down there.
Things on the floor, food that is spilt. What is that floor look like?
What would I call that floor? You would say that flow is dirty, right? Oh, messy, if you want to use that ballpark word.
But he is the main word. It's in a dirty condition, writes this things on the floor.
I'm literally giving you the answer and a context. I'm saying to you, this old spilt on the floor.
Is that not a dirt floor. Now you're thinking to yourself, oh, so she's walking into a dirty room.
That's why she's staying. This room is squad, because it's it's here.
Who? All right? It could. That's how you analyze contexts.
But now let's try to find out if any of this is getting through to you guys.
Third, word jubilant.
With this one, i'll do two types of contexts. But for the first time, I want you to pay atten