tion to me and the expressions that i'm going to goes by very quick.
So do pay attention to me.
No, it's my birth date.
Today I am so jubilant, right?
So that's the first one. You don't know what you will means writes.
You're thinking to yourself. She said, it's her birthday. She's smiling. She is a big smile on her face.
She's beaming, you know, what is going on? But what is jubilant? What is she feeling?
So you're thinking to yourself, it's her birthday.
How do people typically feel on their birthday? Now I want to see if anybody has an idea.
So if you have an idea before I give you that one, you can give me a hand.
What do you think jubilant means?
Looking at the context of how I used it here. Now, why do you think about that one? I'm gonna switch up my explanation.
So we have one. We saw me. You see me? Did you see my face? Like, i'm lighting up. I'm smiling. It's my birthday what is this? You have to tell what's happening here.
All right?
Not the sickened one. I'm sending your text message.
It's my birthday today. I am so jubilant now that one's different.
How? Because you can't see this anymore. You can't see me beaming. You can't see me smiling.
You can't see me changing my posture like this. So i'm like, it's my birthday. I'm so jubilant.
So you're not seeing that anymore.
You just the reading it down. How do you analyze that one? It's still the same process. There's no changes there.
You still analyze it the same way you would when you seeing an expression.
So you're eating it down. My birth date, city, jubilant.
You're thinking, what?
What is jubilant in her birthday have to do?
And now you're thinking, okay, how do people typically feel on their birthdays? Hmm. Okay. So that's what jubilant means before I tell you.
So I am getting a hand.
Has anybody grasped 1 bit of what I was saying?
No takers. All right, that one is happy.
Now the first one, the first context, or the first example, would have been much more easier to understand because of smiling.
Why does a person smile? Why do they light up? Why are they glowing?
Because they happy, right? It's happy. We would have said excited, which would have been a boy park ward, but in this case, happy, even if you're reading it down.
You're thinking to yourself, what is your feeling? Jubilant? What is she talking about?
It's still the same analysis you analyze at the same way.
You think to yourself, how do people few in their birthdays? Granted, others feel sad. I typically feels sad and my birthday, but other people feel happy. So they're not the common. Not is that we are happy.
And the prayers.
That's how you analyze that one. Let's proceed to the swan.
This, one, of course, is going to be 1 bit tricky, but let's do it anyway. Just so you know how to analyze difficult words, but you also you know how to analyze.
Some of the basic words like hot, dirty, happy, are considered those ones quite basic, right?
So let's go to vodka.
Sorry I know I was fostered that one vulgar, right? So let's give a tar scenario.
So you're at a store, at a grocery store, you're standing in line to pay for fees. And then some lady comes and wants to cut in front of you and the line.
And of course there's no, no where you can let that happen. So you say, what it to her? Maybe you say no. You say, I don't want to whatever you say to her.
But all of a sudden said, lady starts shouting at you. She's yelling at you.
You know, she's saying all the things that are not nice to you, maybe even cussing you out.
A man, you're shocked to thinking, why is this lady being so vulgar? What did I do to you?
Why are you being so vulgar to me?
So let's look at falka context.
You have a lady here that is saying things that are not nice to you.
Now, those behaviors shouting at you, that's a behavior screaming at you, even cussing at you. Horrible behavior rights there, right?
So you have all these four things being done by this lady, all these four very terrible behaviours on top of that.
She's not being nice to you.
So now you're sitting there trying to analyze valga, you're thinking, okay, this person is shocked and screaming, cussing, seeing things that are not nice. I personally sounds very rude to me. All these behaviors combined, they spelled root.
This is a pretty rude woman. Why are you being so rude to me? What did I do to you?
I'm standing in line trying to pay for my things. Why are you being so vulgar to me?
So that one is root, can now let's go to this one, the one.
I'll make it easy. But I just wanna see if you guys will cross this one.
So it's rapid right now. Remember new vocabulary and contexts to things that I want you to pay attention to?
But most importantly, if anything, I want you guys to walk away with the understanding of how to analyze context. The vocabulary is a bonus.
But for now context, it will help hope you a lot rapid.
I say to you, oh, look at the time. A class is almost over.
Time is a moving so rapid today.
No, seriously, our casts just start now.
And now it's almost over what is happening to time. And then religious as fast. Yes, right, that is correct. It is forced.
In this case, right? So thank you, lydia, very good, right? So how did you analyze that one? He listened to what i'm saying.
I'm saying, look at the I right. We just got here. We just started. Suddenly gone and finished. What happened to time?
It's moving so fast, so rapid, right? Thank you.
Lydia sluggish, i'll make this one easy because of leia.
I'll make this one easy.
Sluggish is the opposite of a rapid sluggish. Yes, thank you, lydia, slow.
Very good. Now, I made it that easy because of you, lydia, when you got fast, I decided, let me be kind with slow. Just do opposites.
So thank you very much for that. That one's list two, parched observing time.
Let's do parched.
Come back home.
From a long day, you take a glass of water t, you throw it back, you throw it back, and you see, I am so parched.
So basically, the feeling that you feel that makes you want to drink your water, it's called, be patched.
So what is that? What is that feeling that makes you want to drink water?
You feel that. And then you drink water.
What is it any takers? All right, because of time, I do have to give you this one now. It's thirsty. Okay? Lydia, I see the dry.
Very nice. I would have stayed to you. Had I seen your dry earlier, I would have said, correct.
But give me another one, another word to say that so punched is thirsty, dry is not wrong as well. It's a bock word. So it's correct.
Inside the circle on top of the circle is sitting, thirsty, so dry, parched. What else that means?
Thirsty, dry throat, whatever you want to put inside here. So you operate with that one.
But the main one is thirsty. Alright? So let's look at this quickly. Words on the right hand side in english, they are called basic words.
Marios, why? Because everybody and their mother uses it. You know, children say hot, they say, they say rude, but they left hand side.
That you advanced vocabulary. It's not a formal one. No, it's still words you can use, date to day, literally.
You can say dirt every day, you can and use the word dainty every day. But the time you're going to say, spoil it.
You can use the word rapid ascent toys. Rapid. Fast. You guys may, even to me, wrote rapid twice.
I said, rapid means rapid.
Wrapping means fast. Yes? All right? Now, these are words that you can use. Every day is basically what i'm trying to say. None of this offence are not fancy words.
These are not a formal vocabulary. It's literally the worst you use every day. But now you just say them in an advanced way, right?
But the most important thing for today, for me, was context.
It's just keep trying to master the art of analyzing context as to do it to the day. And it helps a lot. See, I see you .thirsty way as well. Thank you for that one. All right. Now, let's do two more.
Let's see, we are overtime. Anybody who wants to leave you guys are more than welcome. And thank you for coming, for those that are staying it's finished.
The last tomb.
So from thirsty, remember your parch, you're drinking your water now you are ravenous. That's how you pronounce that one you are not ravenous. And you eating your food, i'm gonna be quick with it. You're eating your food.
So basically, ravenous is the reason the same way patched was the reason you were drinking water.
Now, ravenous is the reason you eating your food.
What is that feeling? But i'm actually feeding it right now, because I haven't had breakfast.
This morning, I woke up in. I started work.
What am I feeling ravenous?
What is ravenous. All right?
It is hungry, henry way where you were saying hungry as well. Thank you, mama. I see it.
You feel correct right now? I do have to move 1 bit faster, but I see you guys doing so well of their. Thank you.
It's do the last one. Tedious.
I ask you. So how was your day at work today?
And then you say, it was such a tedious day and worked today.
I'm just happy to be home, you know, happy to be back home and lets boring lydia for the wind. She says, pouring as well.
And leta says, tiredly, you were correct the first time.
So ze rights with boring. It does mean boring. You guys are so not tired, but boring.
Okay, otherwise, let me pronounce these words from the top one last time, just to make sure you guys the the pronunciation, right?
So scorching squalid to blend vulgar, rapid, sluggish, parched, ravenous and tedious, right? Hopefully you guys can swap these words around.
He leave the basic ones and gets used in advance for advised. Thank you so much for coming to the lesson and for sticking around for so long. Apologies for the time.
So freer alice z. Tenure lydia, way way in bernard and enjoy the rest of your afternoon you guys. Thank you.
And good bye equal into icsc.